Add guide for Sanity Studio (#866)
zeit/docs: pages/guides/deploying-sanity-studio-with-now.mdx

import Guide from '~/components/layout/guide'
import { TerminalInput } from '~/components/text/terminal'
import { Image } from '~/components/media'
import Caption from '~/components/text/caption'
import Note from '~/components/text/note'
import { InlineCode } from '~/components/text/code'
export const meta = {
  title: 'Deploying Sanity Studio with Now',
  description: 'How to deploy your Sanity Studio with Now',

>   published: '2019-05-28T03:00:00.000Z',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  published: '2019-05-30T03:00:00.000Z',
```

  authors: ['knut'],
  url: '/guides/deploying-sanity-studio-with-now',
  image:
    'https://og-image.now.sh/Deploy%20Sanity%20with%20Now.png?theme=light&md=1&fontSize=100px&images=https%3A%2F%2Fassets.zeit.co%2Fimage%2Fupload%2Ffront%2Fassets%2Fdesign%2Fnow-black.svg&images=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.sanity.io%2Fimages%2F3do82whm%2Fproduction%2F32ad3bafc3c20872754ca164eece005c6827fac4-186x247.svg',
  editUrl: 'pages/guides/deploying-sanity-studio-with-now.mdx',
  lastEdited: '2019-05-28T00:00:00.000Z'
}

> [Sanity.io](https://www.sanity.io) is a platform for structured content with an open source editing environment. Sanity Studio is a single page application written in React, where you can configure the document types, and input fields with simple JavaScript objects. The Studio connects to Sanity’s hosted real-time APIs. You can also customize the Studio with your own input components, plugins, and tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Sanity.io](https://www.sanity.io) is a platform for structured content with an open source editing environment. Sanity Studio is a single page application written in React, where you can configure the document types and input fields, with simple JavaScript objects. The Studio connects to Sanity’s hosted real-time APIs. You can also customize the Studio with your own input components, plugins, and tools.
```

> This guide will walk you through how to deploy Sanity Studio with Now in three simple steps. It will also cover how to deploy the Studio in a monorepo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through how to deploy Sanity Studio with Now in three simple steps. It will also cover how to deploy the Studio in a [monorepo](/examples/monorepo/).
```

<Image
  src={`${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-sanity-studio-with-now/deploying-sanity-studio-with-now.png`}
  width={3200 / 2.75}
  height={1684 / 2.75}
  oversize
/>

> ## Step 1: Set up your Sanity Studio project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Setting Up your Sanity Studio Project
```

<Note>You can skip this step if you already have a project set up.</Note>

First install the [Sanity CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity/cli):

<TerminalInput>yarn global add @sanity/cli</TerminalInput>
<Caption>You can also use `npm i -g @sanity/cli`</Caption>

To initate a new project and download the Studio code to your computer, run the following in the command line:

<TerminalInput>sanity init</TerminalInput>
<Caption>This will initate a new Sanity project</Caption>

The CLI will walk you through the necessary steps to set up a project, and let you choose a schema template. When you're done with these steps, the CLI will download the source code and configuration to get you started. To start it for local development, run this command in the studio folder:

<TerminalInput>sanity start</TerminalInput>
<Caption>Starts the local development server for Sanity Studio</Caption>

Check out [Sanity’s documentation](https://sanity.io/docs) to learn more about how to configure and customize the Studio.

> ## Step 2: Add the configuration for `now`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Getting Ready to Deploy With Now
```

First add a file called `now.json` in the project folder, and copy-paste this code into it:

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "name": "sanity-studio",
  "builds": [{ "src": "package.json", "use": "@now/static-build" }],
  "routes": [
    { "src": "^/static/(.*)", "dest": "/static/$1" },
    { "src": "^/(.*)", "dest": "/index.html" }
  ]
}
```

<Caption>
  You can of course adjust the configuration to suit your project.
</Caption>

The builder will look for a [npm script](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/scripts) called `now-build`, so we'll have to add this to the `scripts` part of the Studio’s `package.json`:

```json
// ...
"scripts": {
  "start": "sanity start",
  "test": "sanity check",
  "now-build": "sanity build"
},
// ...
```

And lastly, add `@sanity/cli` as a `devDependency`, so that the `now` builder installs the dependencies it needs to run the `sanity build` script on deployment:

<TerminalInput>yarn add @sanity/cli --dev</TerminalInput>
<Caption>npm i -D @sanity/cli</Caption>

Make sure that you have saved `now.json` and `package.json`.

> ## Step 3: Deploy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Deploy With Now
```

> Lastly, add `@sanity/cli` as a `devDependency`, so that the Now [Builder](/docs/v2/deployments/builders/overview/) installs the dependencies it needs to run the `sanity build` script on deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, add `@sanity/cli` as a [development dependency](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/dependency-types#toc-dev-dependencies), so that the Now [Builder](/docs/v2/deployments/builders/overview/) installs the dependencies it needs to run the `sanity build` script on deployment:
```

> Make sure that you have saved `now.json` and `package.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After saving your `now.json` and `package.json` files you will be ready to deploy your project.
```

> You can choose whether you want to deploy the Studio directly from the command line by running the `now` command, or from GitHub by installing [Now for Github](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/integrations/now-for-github). When Sanity Studio is deployed successfully, you'll have to add it's URL to Sanity’s [CORS origins](https://www.sanity.io/docs/front-ends/cors) settings. You can do it from the command line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose whether you want to deploy the Studio directly from the command line by running the `now` command, or from GitHub by installing [Now for GitHub](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/integrations/now-for-github). When Sanity Studio is deployed successfully, you will need to add it's URL to Sanity’s [CORS origins](https://www.sanity.io/docs/front-ends/cors) settings. You can do this from the command line:
```

<TerminalInput>sanity cors add your-url.now.sh --credentials</TerminalInput>

> <Caption>Remember to allow credentials</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Adding CORS credentials to your Sanity project.</Caption>
```

Or you can navigate to [manage.sanity.io](https://manage.sanity.io), find your project, go to Settings => API, and add the Studio URL to the CORS origins list. You want allow credentials since the Studio requires authentication (most frontends don't).

> ## Bonus: Deploying Sanity Studio in a monorepo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bonus: Deploying Sanity Studio In a Monorepo
```

> Sometimes you want to have the Studio in the same git repository as your frontend and lambda code. In order to build and have it run smoothly, you'll need to make some small adjustments to the `now.json` as well as the `sanity.json` files. Let's say that you have a JavaScript frontend of some sorts in a `/web` folder, some Go functions in an `/api` folder, and Sanity Studio in a `/studio` folder. Then your `now.json` configuration should look something like this. The `builds` and the `routes` are the most important part here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many teams are more effective when all their code is in one place. Using the monorepo approach with Now is simple with some small changes to your `now.json` and `sanity.json` files. Say you have your JavaScript frontend in `/web`, your Go API in `/api` and Sanity Studio in `/studio`. Your `now.json` configuration should look something like this:
```

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "name": "web-and-studio",
  "builds": [
    { "src": "api/*.go", "use": "@now/go" },
    { "src": "web/package.json", "use": "@now/node" },
    { "src": "studio/package.json", "use": "@now/static-build" }
  ],
  "routes": [
    { "src": "^/studio/static/(.*)", "dest": "/studio/static/$1" },
    { "src": "^/studio/(.*)", "dest": "/studio/index.html" },
    { "src": "^/api/(.*)", "dest": "/api/$1" },
    { "src": "^/(.*)", "dest": "/web/$1" }
  ]
}
```

> <Caption>Pay attention to the order of the routes here.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>An example <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file for a monorepo Sanity project.</Caption>
```

> Since we're now accessing the studio on `your-url.now.sh/studio`, we need to tell the studio that it runs in a subfolder. This is done by adding `basePath` to `sanity.json`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we are now accessing the studio at `your-url.now.sh/studio`, we need to tell the studio that it runs in a subfolder. This is done by adding a `basePath` property to `sanity.json`:
```

```json
//...
"project": {
    "name": "my-sanity-studio",
    "basePath": "/studio"
},
//...
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>An example <InlineCode>sanity.json</InlineCode> file in a Sanity project.</Caption>
```

<Note>
  If you want to change `studio` to `admin` or something else, make sure you

>   replace all occurrances in this configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  replace all occurrences in this configuration.
```

</Note>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Resources

For more information on working with Sanity Studio, please refer to [their documentation](https://www.sanity.io/docs/content-studio).

To configure Now further, please see these additional topics and guides:

<Card title="Deploying Basics" href="/docs/v2/deployments/basics">
  Deploy any of your applications with ZEIT Now.
</Card>

<Card
  title="Aliasing"
  href="/docs/v2/domains-and-aliases/aliasing-a-deployment/"
>
  Learn more about aliasing to your deployments.
</Card>

<Card title="www. Redirect" href="/guides/redirect-from-www">
  Create a redirect from the www. subdomain to your naked domain.
</Card>

<Card title="More Guides" href="/guides">
  See more guides that help you move forward with your projects and deployments.
</Card>
```

import Guide from '~/components/layout/guide'
import { TerminalInput } from '~/components/text/terminal'
import { Image } from '~/components/media'
import Caption from '~/components/text/caption'
import Note from '~/components/text/note'
import { InlineCode } from '~/components/text/code'

> export const meta = {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import Card from '~/components/card'
export const meta = {
```

Now provides an environment to deploy all types of projects, including static files, making it a good option for deploying your Sanity project. With a simple `now.json` file, you will be able to deploy your project **with just a single command**.

To get your project ready for deployment, add a `now.json` file at the root of your project directory with the following code:

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "name": "sanity-studio",
  "builds": [{ "src": "package.json", "use": "@now/static-build" }],
  "routes": [
    { "src": "^/static/(.*)", "dest": "/static/$1" },
    { "src": "^/(.*)", "dest": "/index.html" }
  ]
}
```

<Caption>
An example <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file for your Sanity project.
</Caption>

The [Builder](/docs/v2/deployments/builders/overview/) will look for an [npm script](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/scripts) called `now-build`, you should add this to the `scripts` part of the Studio’s `package.json` file:

```json
// ...
"scripts": {
  "start": "sanity start",
  "test": "sanity check",
  "now-build": "sanity build"
},
// ...
```
<Caption>An example <InlineCode>package.json</InlineCode> file for your Sanity project.</Caption>

> Lastly, add `@sanity/cli` as a [development dependency](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/dependency-types#toc-dev-dependencies), so that the Now [Builder](/docs/v2/deployments/builders/overview/) installs the dependencies it needs to run the `sanity build` script on deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Lastly, add `@sanity/cli` as a [development dependency](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/dependency-types#toc-dev-dependencies), so that the Now [Builder](/docs/v2/deployments/builders/overview/) installs the dependencies it needs to run the `sanity build` script on deployment:
```

```json
//...
"project": {
    "name": "my-sanity-studio",
    "basePath": "/studio"
},
//...
```
<Caption>An example <InlineCode>sanity.json</InlineCode> file in a Sanity project.</Caption>
<Note>
  If you want to change the <InlineCode>/studio</InlineCode> path to something different, make sure you
  replace all occurrences in the configuration.
</Note>

## Resources

For more information on working with Sanity Studio, please refer to [their documentation](https://www.sanity.io/docs/content-studio).

To configure Now further, please see these additional topics and guides:

<Card title="Deploying Basics" href="/docs/v2/deployments/basics">
  Deploy any of your applications with ZEIT Now.
</Card>

<Card
  title="Aliasing"
  href="/docs/v2/domains-and-aliases/aliasing-a-deployment/"
>
  Learn more about aliasing to your deployments.
</Card>

<Card title="www. Redirect" href="/guides/redirect-from-www">
  Create a redirect from the www. subdomain to your naked domain.
</Card>

<Card title="More Guides" href="/guides">
  See more guides that help you move forward with your projects and deployments.
</Card>

> export default ({ children }) => <Guide meta={meta}>{children}</Guide>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

export default ({ children }) => <Guide meta={meta}>{children}</Guide>
```
